# _FIRST_ LEGO League System module standard `v1.0-SNAPSHOT`

This document is created to create a standard between all the _FIRST_ LEGO League System's modules. This standard is
created to allowed the [Launcher]() to operate the modules. The operations of the launcher would include running,
configuring the module and more cross-module operations. This standard would allow anyone to create new modules to
the _FIRST_ LEGO League System without changing the core part of it.

## Standard's versions

The standard version of this document would be using a short [semver](https://semver.org/). This should allow us to
track the changes in the standard. A launcher which is compatible with a specific standard version `X.Y` should be able
to operate with any module which is compatible with the standard's version `X.Z` where `Z <= Y`. This gives the ground
rule for changing the standard major or minor version.

**NOTE**: The version of the standard might also contain the tag `SNAPSHOT` as in `v1.0-SNAPSHOT`. This means that the
current version is draft and likely to be changed in the future or already been changed. Those versions are helpful
when changing your module to be compatible while it's still in progress but no module or launcher should ever be
released compatible to a `SNAPSHOT` version.

## Module registration and metadata

For a module to be register in the launcher all the files regarding to the module should be placed in the folder
`$FLL_SYSTEM/modules/$MODULE_NAME`. The module name must only contains non-capital letters, numbers and the dash
character (-). Inside this folder there should be a file `module.yml` containing the module
metadata. This file is a `YAML` file with the following:
```YAML
api: '1.0'            # This should be the latest version of api this module is compatiable with
name: $name$          # the name of the module should be the same as the folder name
version: $version$    # the vesrion of the module
type: $module-type$   # should be 'node', 'web' or 'generic'
require:
  $module-requirements$ # see requirements sections
config:
  $configuration-metadata$   # See configuration section for more infomation
```
The `type` field is describing the type of the module and also determine which other fields should be found under the
module field. The possible types and there required fields are as followed:

### Node module

This is for modules which there primary language is node.js and the module is released as a npm package in the
[npm public registry](https://www.npmjs.com/). This modules should add to the `module.yml` file the following fields
under it module part:
1. `script` - the node.js script file which is starting the module
1. `arguments` (optional) - an array of the arguments should be passed to the script when starting the script

### Web Module

This type is for module which is a client based modules with no need to a server side. This type of module would not
run a process in the launcher's computer but there should be serving of `html`, `css` and `js` files. This modules
should add to the `module.yml` file the following fields under it module part:
1. `index` - The index file that should be served by default

### Generic module

This type is for modules that don't fit into the definitions of the other module's types. This modules should add to
the `module.yml` file the following fields under it module part:
1. `command` - the command for running the module process. This field is getting two possible types
   1. a string represent the command
   2. an object represent the command for each operating system
1. `arguments` (optional) - an array of the arguments should be passed to the script when starting the script

## Service operations

A module must have a process that runs on the server side. The module would control the starting and the termination of
the process by using the `executable` field in the module metadata or in the `script` field in case of module type
which support it. The use of the `arguments` field is possible to describe which arguments should be added to the
spawning of the process but is not recommended for keeping simplicity.

The termination of the process must be started after the process have got a `SIGINT` from the operating system. In
this case the process must stop getting new requests which received after the signal and should finish handle requests
that got before the signal and can be handled completely in a short time. After handling all requests, the process
should shut himself down. Be aware that delaying the shut down of the process even because of handling requests got
prior to the signal, might cause the launcher to shut down the process by force.

**NOTICE:** Some module types like web module, does not have any service process running on server side or the service
process isn't part of the module. In this case the launcher would be responsible for starting and terminating a process
relevant to it's type.

### Operating systems

When using the `executable` field in the module's metadata it is critical to notice the possibilities of the operation
systems that would run the module. If an executable might work different on each operating system the module can
provide different executable for each operating system. In the field `executable` one can switch a string with an
object such that each field in the object would contain the operating system and the value would contain a path to the
executable.

The operating system names possibilities are:
* `aix`
* `darwin`
* `freebsd`
* `linux`
* `openbsd`
* `sunos`
* `win32`

Even due all of this operation systems can be used with a different executable there is no guarantee that the launcher
would be able to run on any of those operating system. The official launcher of the _FIRST_ LEGO League System is
promised to support only `win32` operation systems.

## Cross module correlations

When a session created in a module either by message from the queue, scheduled routine or other, the session should be
assigned with a correlation id. If such id is assigned, it should assign the same correlation id as found in the
request. If such id not found in the request, then the module should assign a new generated correlation id. This id can
be generated by decoding 96 random bits to base64 string.

When operating inside the session a module should attempt to send every request to an external source with the same
correlation id as it's own. Therefore keeping a cross-module procedures keeping the same correlation id. Also modules
should add the correlation id of the current session to any log message produced by the session, so it will be possible
to analyze the logs across all modules participated in a cross-module procedure.

## Authentication

In order to allow safe information to be shared across modules, upon launch the launcher assigns the `SECRET`
environment variable. This variable should be used to authenticate the HTTP requests between modules.

HTTP requests should be authenticated using a header `auth-token` or a cookie `user-auth`. The field should contain a
[JSON Web Token](https://jwt.io/) encoded with the `SECRET` environment variable, containing the data for the
authorization of the user.

The authentication token will follow the following scheme:
```json
{
  "u": "$USERNAME$"
}
```

## Communications

For main communication each module may listen to a port given in the environment variable `PORT`. A module should
use this port as the main way for other modules to communicate with the module. A module must not listen to any port
other then the one given in the environment variable `PORT`.

As of communicating between module and external resources there are two standardize ways to send and receive messages:
1. via HTTP request - for request messages with expected response
2. via mhub - for messages with no response or no known receiver
A module can create communication with any external source by any way available. Tough, modules should use the
standardize ways as long as it possible.

### HTTP requests

A standardize HTTP request should be designed in [REST API](http://www.restapitutorial.com/index.html). Also a
standardize HTTP request must contain two additional headers:
1. `auth-token` - containing authentication token as described in the "Authentication" section
2. `correlation-id` - containing the correlation id as described in the "Cross module correlations" section

For a module to connect with other modules via HTTP requests. A module can use a set of environment variables in the
form of `MODULE_%MODULE_NAME%_URL`. Those environment variables are including the url of every module. The module name
inside the environment variable should include the module name with capital letters and underscore (_) instead of dash
(-).

### Mhub messages

A standardize Mhub message should container these headers:
1. `client-id` - an identifier for the client that sent the message. This can be any string,
no longer then 20 characters, and should have a common prefix among all module clients.
2. `correlation-id` - containing the correlation id as described in the "Cross module correlations" section

The three open Mhub nodes are:
1. The `public` node - has no authentication or restrictions upon any of its fields.
2. The `protected` node - has no restrictions on reading, but in order to write a client must log-in using
the username `protected-client` and the password saved in the environment variable `PROTECTED_MHUB_PASSWORD`.
3. The `configuration` node - see `configuration` section. This node is private and available only for the
servers.

The Mhub URL can be found in the environment variable `MHUB`.

## Requirements

Each module is able to access certain resource which is shared resource with the launcher. For a module to receive
such resource must be decalred in the `module.yml` in the field `require`. This field is contain an array of the
possible resource the module require.

### MongoDB

For a module to require access to mongoDB a module must add the `mongodb` string into the `require` array in the
`module.yml`. A module that have been required a mongo database would have an environment variable `MONGO_URI` as
part of it's process environments variables. This variable is the connection string to connect to the mongo instance.
A process must not add any option to his mongo client other then this connection string on it's unmodifeid form,
this also implies for using a database name other then the one which is defined in that enivronment variable.

The provided mongoDB would of version `3.2` or later. This means that a module must not use any mongoDB feature which
is added in a later version. And also a module must not use any mongoDB feature which is marked as deprecated for that
version of mongoDB.

## Configuration

Each module must declare it's configuration metadata inside the `config` field of it's `module.yml` file. The fields
metadata should be divided to groups to set thier apperence in the launcher. The `config` part of`module.yml` file must
be in the following format:
```yaml
# rest of the module file
config:
  - name: $group1-name$      # Optional, up to one group without a name
    fields:
      - name: $field1-name$                 # The name which the field would be referenced with
        display: $field1-display-name$      # The name which the field would displayed with (optional)
        type: $field1-type$                 # The type of the field
        default: $field1-default-value$        # The initial value of the field
        # Other properties depends on the type
      - name: $field2-name$
        default: $field2-default-value$
        type: $field2-type$
        # Other properties depends on the type
  - name: $group2-name$
    fields:
      # Some more fields metadata
```
Each field can have one of the following types:
1. `string` - to reperesent a one-line string field. This field type can have the following options:
   - `min_length` - the minimum length of the string
   - `max_length` - the maximum length of the string
1. `paragraph` - to repersent a string with multiple lines. This field type can have the following options:
   - `min_length` - the minimum length of the paragraph (in characters number)
   - `max_length` - the maximum length of the paragraph (in characters number)
1. `password` - to reperesent a password field.
    This field is being hashed using sha256 before saving or sending updated.
    This field type can have the following options:
   - `min_length` - the minimum length of the password (in characters number)
   - `max_length` - the maximum length of the password (in characters number)
1. `integer` - to repersent a integer. This field type can have the following options:
   - `min` - the lower bound possible for the field
   - `max` - the upper bound possible for the field
1. `decimal` - to repersent a decimal number. This field type can have the following options:
   - `min` - the lower bound possible for the field
   - `max` - the upper bound possible for the field
   - `precision` - number of decimals digits should be saved after the floating point. default is `2`
1. `date` - to represent a date with no time context.
1. `datetime` - to represent a date with time.
1. `boolean` - to represent a true/false filed.
1. `values` - to represent a field with limited options. This field type must have the option `values` which contains
   an array of all the possible values for the field.
1. `file` - to represent a file path. The path should be absolute and point to an existing file in the server
computer.  This field type can have the following options:
   - `extensions` - an array containing allowed extensions for this file. If not specified, no limitation
will be applied.

A module can recieve his configurations from the launcher by using a mhub. To acquire the configurations a module must
must subscribe to the mhub node `configuration`. This node is a
(Topic Store Node)[https://www.npmjs.com/package/mhub#node-types], which means it saves the last message of each topic.
The username for this node will be `configuration` and the password will be the `SECRET` environment variable.

The message topics on the `configuration` node will be `config:$MODULE_NAME$`. When the field is changed, either by the
module or by the centralized configuration module, the updating party must send a mhub message on this topic. The data
of this message must follow this scheme:
```json
{
  "fields": [
    {
      "name": "$FIELD_NAME$",
      "value": "$NEW_FIELD_VALUE$"
    },
    {
      "name": "$FIELD_NAME$",
      "value": "$NEW_FIELD_VALUE$"
    },
    ...
  ]
}
```

This message is containing *all fields* of the configuration. Modules should send an initial message containing their configuration after loging into the `configuration` node.

## Log Messages

The logs of each modules need to be categorized into 5 log levels ordered by their severity:
1. `DEBUG` - this should include any log which isn't holds information that might come in handy while debugging but
   with to flood the logs when running on production e.g. logging the beginning of each iteration in a for-each loop
2. `INFO` - This should include any log which holds information about the operations made inside this module which
   indicates that the operation is working as expected at the time of the logging e.g. logging the start and end of
   each operation made by the module
3. `WARN` - This should include any log which indicates that an operation is showing any unexpected behavior while
   keeping the final results as expected e.g. logging when there was a need to retry a external request
4. `ERROR` - This should include any log which indicates that an operation is not working as expected in terms of it's
   final results e.g. logging when parsing malformed user input
5. `FATAL` - This should include any log which indicates that there is an unexpected behavior in the module operation
   which must cause the module to shutdown.

The module process must read the environment variable `LOG_LEVEL` and use it to filter any log message with a severity
less then the one given by this variable. The process must also print each log message to the standard output of the
process, and should not write them in any log file created by itself or by any other process.

The log messages should be printed in a minified json format wrapped with a new line feed to help separating between
the messages. The json format of the message must include the following fields:
```json
{
  "level": "$LEVEL$",
  "module": "$MODULE_NAME$",
  "timestamp": "YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm:ss.sss+TZ", // timestamp should be written ISO8601 including milisecond
                                             // and an indication of the computer timezone
  "correlationId": "$CORRELATION_ID$", // as descibed in the "Cross module correlations" section
  "message": "$LOG_MESSAGE$"
}
```

## Module data

All data of the module that isn't saved on the client side, and isn't saved in an external database module must be kept
inside the folder passed by the environment variable `DATA_DIR`. Also the module process must be able to read this data
after been moved across computers as long as the content of the folder and files in it stayed as they were created. A
module should be able to continue working with some exceptional behavior when tried to read corrupted data from the
data folder.

## Additional properties

Each module may have an additional properties. Those properties includes information about the module which have no
effect on the operation of the module itself. The available properties are as followed:
1. `hidden` - If true indicates that a module has no user-interface and therefore a launcher should not display a link
    to a page of the module. When not present the default value is false
1. `display` - The display name of the module. When not present default value is the module's name.